docs/index.md, before:

---
page_title: "Provider: Crucible"
description: |-
  The Crucible provider provides terraform integration with the Crucible Framework.
---

# Crucible Provider

[Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/) is an Infrastructure as Code tool for managing cloud-based infrastructure. A provider is a plugin to Terraform that allows for the management of a given resource type. That is, a provider supplies the logic needed to manage infrastructure. There are four main resource types managed by this provider: virtual machines, views, application templates, and vlans. They are detailed below.

In order to use the provider, several environment variables must be set:

```
SEI_CRUCIBLE_USERNAME=<your username>
SEI_CRUCIBLE_PASSWORD=<your password>
SEI_CRUCIBLE_AUTH_URL=<the url to the authentication service>
SEI_CRUCIBLE_TOK_URL=<the url where you get your player authentication token>
SEI_CRUCIBLE_CLIENT_ID=<your client ID for authentication>
SEI_CRUCIBLE_CLIENT_SECRET=<your client secret for authentication>
SEI_CRUCIBLE_VM_API_URL=<the url to the VM API>
SEI_CRUCIBLE_PLAYER_API_URL=<the url to the Player API>
SEI_CRUCIBLE_CASTER_API_URL=<the url to the Caster API>
```

## Virtual Machines

The provider can interact with Crucible's VM API in order to manage virtual machine resources. VMs can be created, read, updated, and destroyed using Terraform with this provider. Some example configs for single virtual machines are defined below.

```hcl
resource "crucible_player_virtual_machine" "vsphere_example" {
	vm_id = "6a7ec409-d275-4b31-94d3-a51cb61d2519"
	name = "User1"
	team_ids = ["46420756-9421-41b7-99b4-1b6d2cba29b3"]
	console_connection_info {
		hostname = "vm1.example.local"
		port = "22"
		protocol = "ssh"
		username = "user"
		password = "example"
	}
}

resource "crucible_player_virtual_machine" "guacamole_example" {
	url = "https://guac.example.com/guacamole" #address of your guacamole server
	name = "User2"
	team_ids = ["46420756-9421-41b7-99b4-1b6d2cba29b3"]
	console_connection_info {
		hostname = "vm1.example.local"
		port = "22"
		protocol = "ssh"
		username = "user"
		password = "example"
	}
}

resource "crucible_player_virtual_machine" "proxmox_example" {
	name = "User3"
	team_ids = ["46420756-9421-41b7-99b4-1b6d2cba29b3"]
	proxmox_vm_info {
		id = 100
		node = "pve"
	}
}
```

The name of the resource type - the first string after the word "resource" - must be `crucible_player_virtual_machine`. This tells Terraform what kind of infrastructure is being managed. The name of the specific configuration block ("example" in the above configuration) can be any string. The fields within the configuration are detailed below.

- vm_id: This must be a globally unique identifier (GUID) not shared by any other machines in the same configuration. When creating a VM, this will generally point to the ID of a machine created using something like VSphere. If this is omitted, the provider will generate a GUID for this field.

- url: The URL to the virtual machine console. This can be any valid url. If omitted, the API will use the default URL for the virtual machine's type, which is usually desired.

- name: The name of the VM. This is the name that will show up in the view where the VM is created. It can be any string.

- user_id: This is an optional field that, if set, must be a GUID corresponding to the ID of the user of this VM.

- team_ids: A list of GUIDs corresponding to the IDs of the teams who should be given access to this machine.

- console_connection_info: An optional object describing how to connect to this virtual machine's console through a web-based service like Guacamole

  - hostname: The internal hostname or address that Guacamole should connect to for this virtual machine
  - port: The port to connect to
  - protocol: The protocol to use for the connection (ssh, vnc, rdp)
  - username: An optional username to connect with
  - password: An optional password to connect with

- proxmox_vm_info: An optional object with additional metadata required for a virtual machine on a Proxmox hypervisor
  - id: The integer id of the virtual machine within Proxmox
  - node: The name of the node that the virtual machine is running on
  - type: The type of virtual machine (QEMU, LXC). If omitted, defaults to QEMU

## Player Views

The Provider can also interact with Crucible's Player API in order to manage views and the things that live within them such as teams and applications. An example configuration is outlined below.

An example configuration:

```
resource "crucible_player_view" "example" {
	name = "example"
	description = "This was created from terraform!"
	status = "Active"

	application	{
		name = "testApp"
		embeddable = "false"
		load_in_background = "true"
	}

	team {
		name = "test_team"
		role = SomeRole
		user {
			user_id = "6fb5b293-668b-4eb6-b614-dfdd6b0e0acf"
		}
		app_instance {
			name = "testApp"
			display_order = 0
		}
	}
}
```

As before, the name of this resource type _must_ be the first string after the word "resource" - ie it must be "crucible_player_view". The name of this specific block can, again, be any string.

Inside of the resource block, there is information to configure both the view itself as well as the resources that live inside the view. Only the information about the view itself is required. Thus, it is possible to simply create an empty view. Each field is outlined below.

### The view itself

<ul>
<li> name: The name of this view. This can be any string. Required.
<li> description: A description for this view. This can be any string. Optional.
<li> status: The status of this view. That is, whether it is active. This field is a string. Optional.
</ul>

### Applications

There do not have to be any applications within a view, so no application blocks are required. However, for each application block that is set, certain fields within it must be set. See the above configuration example for the the syntax of creating an application block. The fields of an application are outlined below. Applications should be placed in the configuration in alphabetical order by name. Note that numbers come before letters in an alphabetical ordering.

Due to a quirk in Terraform's type system, values for `embeddable` and `load_in_background` must be wrapped in quotes. They are still boolean fields; their values just need to be wrapped in quotes as is shown above.

<ul>
<li> app_id: The GUID of this application. Optional. If not set, it will be generated internally.
<li> name: The name of this application. Required.
<li> v_id: The GUID of the view this application will be created under. Optional. If not set, it will automatically be set to the ID of the view this application is under.
<li> url: A URL to associate with this application. Optional.
<li> icon: A string pointing to the icon for this application. Optional.
<li> embeddable: A boolean stating whether this application is embeddable. Optional.
<li> load_in_background: A boolean stating whether this application should be loaded in the background. Optional.
<li> app_template_id: The GUID of an application template to inherit from. Optional.
</ul>

### Teams

As with applications, there do not need to be any teams within a view. However, for each team that is defined, some fields must be set. The fields of a team block are outlined below. Teams should be placed in the config file in alphabetical order by name. Otherwise, Terraform will try to update the state when changes are not necessary. The users within teams should also be placed in alphabetical order by their user_id. App instances should be placed in alphabetical order by name.

<ul>
<li> name: The name of this team, which can be any string. Required.
<li> role: The name of the role this team falls under, if any. Optional.
<li> permissions: A list of GUIDs corresponding to this team's permissions. Optional.
<li> user: Any users that are in this team. Optional.
	<ul>
	<li> user_id: The GUID of this user. Required.
	<li> role: The name of a role to assign this user. Optional.
	</ul>
<li> app_instance: App application assigned to this team. This field must be set for a team to have access to a given application.
	<ul>
	<li> Name: Required. The name of the application to instantiate.
	<li> display_order: Optional. Determines the order in which applications within a team will be displayed. A value of 0 will make this the first application shown. If not set, this will default to 0.
	</ul>  
</ul>

## Application Templates

The provider can also interact with the Player API to create application templates. These are a distinct resource because application templates do not exist underneath views. An example configuration for an application template is outlined below.

```
resource "crucible_player_application_template" "template" {
	name = "Example"
	url = "http://example.com"
	icon = "https://www.cs.cmu.edu/sites/default/files/fall10p05_sm_0.jpg"
	embeddable = false
	load_in_background = false
}
```

As before, this resource needs to have a specific name - `crucible_player_application_template`. The name of the instance, however, can be anything. The configuration fields are defined below.

<ul>
<li> name: The name of the application template. Required. 
<li> url: The url this application template should point to. Optional.
<li> icon: The URL to an image to use as the template's icon. Optional.
<li> embeddable: Boolean flag specifying whether this template is embeddable. Optional.
<li> load_in_background: Boolean flags specifying whether this template should load in the background. Optional.
</ul>

## Users

The provider can also create users within Player. Note that this is distinct from a `user` block inside of a `view`. The block inside of a view assumes a user with the given id already exists, whereas this resource type _creates_ the user. This is intended to be used in conjunction with the Identity provider to create accounts and add corresponding users to Player. Once created, users can be used within teams and views. An example configuration for a user is below.

```
resource "crucible_player_user" "test" {
    user_id = identity_account.test.global_id
    # Make sure the user does not have the email domain in their username
    name = regex("(.*)(@.*)", identity_account.test.username)[0]
    role = "TestRole"
}
```

User properties

- user_id: The GUID to create this user with. Will probably point to an Identity account's GUID. Required.
- name: The name to assign this user. Required.
- role: A role to give this user. Optional.
- is_system_admin: Whether this user is a system admin. Computer.

## VLANs

The provider can interact with Crucible's Caster API in order to manage VLAN resources. VLANs can be acquired and released using this provider. The vlan_id of the returned VLAN is simply a number that will be marked as in use at the Caster API, allowing it to be used in a terraform configuration as the id of a VLAN in whatever infrastructure is being created without fear of collissions. Caster groups each set of 4096 VLANs into Pools, which can be further sub-divided into Partitions.

The available properties are as follows:

- project_id: The Id of a Project in Caster. If this Project exists and has been assigned a VLAN Partition, the requested VLAN will come from this Partition

- partition_id: The Id of a Partition in Caster. If this Partition exists, the requested VLAN will come from this Partition. Only one of project_id or partition_id can be set on a vlan resource. If neither are set, the requested VLAN will come from the system-wide default Partition in Caster, if one has been set.

- tag: If set, will return a VLAN with the specified tag, only if one with the requested tag exists and is not in use in the requested VLAN partition. Otherwise, an error will occur.

- vlan_id: If set, will return a VLAN with the specified vlan_id, only if it is not in use in the requested Partition. Otherwise, an error will occur.

Some example configurations:

```hcl
# use the default partition
resource "crucible_vlan" "default" {}

# use the partition assigned to the project
resource "crucible_vlan" "project" {
	project_id = var.project_id
}

# use a specific partition
resource "crucible_vlan" "partition" {
	partition_id = var.partition_id
}

# use a specific vlan_id in a specific partition
resource "crucible_vlan" "id" {
	partition_id = var.partition_id
	vlan_id = 10
}

# use a vlan with a specific tag in a project's partition
resource "crucible_vlan" "tag" {
	project_id = var.project_id
	tag = "red"
}
```

## Reporting bugs and requesting features

Think you found a bug? Please report all Crucible bugs - including bugs for the individual Crucible apps - in the [cmu-sei/crucible issue tracker](https://github.com/cmu-sei/crucible/issues).

Include as much detail as possible including steps to reproduce, specific app involved, and any error messages you may have received.

Have a good idea for a new feature? Submit all new feature requests through the [cmu-sei/crucible issue tracker](https://github.com/cmu-sei/crucible/issues).

Include the reasons why you're requesting the new feature and how it might benefit other Crucible users.

## License

Copyright 2022 Carnegie Mellon University. See the [LICENSE.md](./LICENSE.md) files for details.

Commit message:

added embeddable property to crucible_player_virtual_machine (#8)
- Adds support for the Embeddable property of the crucible_player_virtual_machine resource.
If set to false, the UI should not allow the VM to be opened in the embedded console
view and always open it in a new tab.

docs/index.md, after:

---
page_title: "Provider: Crucible"
description: |-
  The Crucible provider provides terraform integration with the Crucible Framework.
---

# Crucible Provider

[Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/) is an Infrastructure as Code tool for managing cloud-based infrastructure. A provider is a plugin to Terraform that allows for the management of a given resource type. That is, a provider supplies the logic needed to manage infrastructure. There are four main resource types managed by this provider: virtual machines, views, application templates, and vlans. They are detailed below.

In order to use the provider, several environment variables must be set:

```
SEI_CRUCIBLE_USERNAME=<your username>
SEI_CRUCIBLE_PASSWORD=<your password>
SEI_CRUCIBLE_AUTH_URL=<the url to the authentication service>
SEI_CRUCIBLE_TOK_URL=<the url where you get your player authentication token>
SEI_CRUCIBLE_CLIENT_ID=<your client ID for authentication>
SEI_CRUCIBLE_CLIENT_SECRET=<your client secret for authentication>
SEI_CRUCIBLE_VM_API_URL=<the url to the VM API>
SEI_CRUCIBLE_PLAYER_API_URL=<the url to the Player API>
SEI_CRUCIBLE_CASTER_API_URL=<the url to the Caster API>
```

## Virtual Machines

The provider can interact with Crucible's VM API in order to manage virtual machine resources. VMs can be created, read, updated, and destroyed using Terraform with this provider. Some example configs for single virtual machines are defined below.

```hcl
resource "crucible_player_virtual_machine" "vsphere_example" {
	vm_id = "6a7ec409-d275-4b31-94d3-a51cb61d2519"
	name = "User1"
	team_ids = ["46420756-9421-41b7-99b4-1b6d2cba29b3"]
	console_connection_info {
		hostname = "vm1.example.local"
		port = "22"
		protocol = "ssh"
		username = "user"
		password = "example"
	}
}

resource "crucible_player_virtual_machine" "guacamole_example" {
	url = "https://guac.example.com/guacamole" #address of your guacamole server
	name = "User2"
	team_ids = ["46420756-9421-41b7-99b4-1b6d2cba29b3"]
	console_connection_info {
		hostname = "vm1.example.local"
		port = "22"
		protocol = "ssh"
		username = "user"
		password = "example"
	}
	embeddable = false
}

resource "crucible_player_virtual_machine" "proxmox_example" {
	name = "User3"
	team_ids = ["46420756-9421-41b7-99b4-1b6d2cba29b3"]
	proxmox_vm_info {
		id = 100
		node = "pve"
	}
	embeddable = true
}
```

The name of the resource type - the first string after the word "resource" - must be `crucible_player_virtual_machine`. This tells Terraform what kind of infrastructure is being managed. The name of the specific configuration block ("example" in the above configuration) can be any string. The fields within the configuration are detailed below.

- vm_id: This must be a globally unique identifier (GUID) not shared by any other machines in the same configuration. When creating a VM, this will generally point to the ID of a machine created using something like VSphere. If this is omitted, the provider will generate a GUID for this field.

- url: The URL to the virtual machine console. This can be any valid url. If omitted, the API will use the default URL for the virtual machine's type, which is usually desired.

- name: The name of the VM. This is the name that will show up in the view where the VM is created. It can be any string.

- user_id: This is an optional field that, if set, must be a GUID corresponding to the ID of the user of this VM.

- team_ids: A list of GUIDs corresponding to the IDs of the teams who should be given access to this machine.

- console_connection_info: An optional object describing how to connect to this virtual machine's console through a web-based service like Guacamole

  - hostname: The internal hostname or address that Guacamole should connect to for this virtual machine
  - port: The port to connect to
  - protocol: The protocol to use for the connection (ssh, vnc, rdp)
  - username: An optional username to connect with
  - password: An optional password to connect with

- proxmox_vm_info: An optional object with additional metadata required for a virtual machine on a Proxmox hypervisor

  - id: The integer id of the virtual machine within Proxmox
  - node: The name of the node that the virtual machine is running on
  - type: The type of virtual machine (QEMU, LXC). If omitted, defaults to QEMU

- embeddable: An optional boolean field denoting if the UI should allow opening of this virtual machine's console in the embedded view. If false, the UI should only allow opening the console in a new tab. Defaults to true.

## Player Views

The Provider can also interact with Crucible's Player API in order to manage views and the things that live within them such as teams and applications. An example configuration is outlined below.

An example configuration:

```
resource "crucible_player_view" "example" {
	name = "example"
	description = "This was created from terraform!"
	status = "Active"

	application	{
		name = "testApp"
		embeddable = "false"
		load_in_background = "true"
	}

	team {
		name = "test_team"
		role = SomeRole
		user {
			user_id = "6fb5b293-668b-4eb6-b614-dfdd6b0e0acf"
		}
		app_instance {
			name = "testApp"
			display_order = 0
		}
	}
}
```

As before, the name of this resource type _must_ be the first string after the word "resource" - ie it must be "crucible_player_view". The name of this specific block can, again, be any string.

Inside of the resource block, there is information to configure both the view itself as well as the resources that live inside the view. Only the information about the view itself is required. Thus, it is possible to simply create an empty view. Each field is outlined below.

### The view itself

<ul>
<li> name: The name of this view. This can be any string. Required.
<li> description: A description for this view. This can be any string. Optional.
<li> status: The status of this view. That is, whether it is active. This field is a string. Optional.
</ul>

### Applications

There do not have to be any applications within a view, so no application blocks are required. However, for each application block that is set, certain fields within it must be set. See the above configuration example for the the syntax of creating an application block. The fields of an application are outlined below. Applications should be placed in the configuration in alphabetical order by name. Note that numbers come before letters in an alphabetical ordering.

Due to a quirk in Terraform's type system, values for `embeddable` and `load_in_background` must be wrapped in quotes. They are still boolean fields; their values just need to be wrapped in quotes as is shown above.

<ul>
<li> app_id: The GUID of this application. Optional. If not set, it will be generated internally.
<li> name: The name of this application. Required.
<li> v_id: The GUID of the view this application will be created under. Optional. If not set, it will automatically be set to the ID of the view this application is under.
<li> url: A URL to associate with this application. Optional.
<li> icon: A string pointing to the icon for this application. Optional.
<li> embeddable: A boolean stating whether this application is embeddable. Optional.
<li> load_in_background: A boolean stating whether this application should be loaded in the background. Optional.
<li> app_template_id: The GUID of an application template to inherit from. Optional.
</ul>

### Teams

As with applications, there do not need to be any teams within a view. However, for each team that is defined, some fields must be set. The fields of a team block are outlined below. Teams should be placed in the config file in alphabetical order by name. Otherwise, Terraform will try to update the state when changes are not necessary. The users within teams should also be placed in alphabetical order by their user_id. App instances should be placed in alphabetical order by name.

<ul>
<li> name: The name of this team, which can be any string. Required.
<li> role: The name of the role this team falls under, if any. Optional.
<li> permissions: A list of GUIDs corresponding to this team's permissions. Optional.
<li> user: Any users that are in this team. Optional.
	<ul>
	<li> user_id: The GUID of this user. Required.
	<li> role: The name of a role to assign this user. Optional.
	</ul>
<li> app_instance: App application assigned to this team. This field must be set for a team to have access to a given application.
	<ul>
	<li> Name: Required. The name of the application to instantiate.
	<li> display_order: Optional. Determines the order in which applications within a team will be displayed. A value of 0 will make this the first application shown. If not set, this will default to 0.
	</ul>  
</ul>

## Application Templates

The provider can also interact with the Player API to create application templates. These are a distinct resource because application templates do not exist underneath views. An example configuration for an application template is outlined below.

```
resource "crucible_player_application_template" "template" {
	name = "Example"
	url = "http://example.com"
	icon = "https://www.cs.cmu.edu/sites/default/files/fall10p05_sm_0.jpg"
	embeddable = false
	load_in_background = false
}
```

As before, this resource needs to have a specific name - `crucible_player_application_template`. The name of the instance, however, can be anything. The configuration fields are defined below.

<ul>
<li> name: The name of the application template. Required. 
<li> url: The url this application template should point to. Optional.
<li> icon: The URL to an image to use as the template's icon. Optional.
<li> embeddable: Boolean flag specifying whether this template is embeddable. Optional.
<li> load_in_background: Boolean flags specifying whether this template should load in the background. Optional.
</ul>

## Users

The provider can also create users within Player. Note that this is distinct from a `user` block inside of a `view`. The block inside of a view assumes a user with the given id already exists, whereas this resource type _creates_ the user. This is intended to be used in conjunction with the Identity provider to create accounts and add corresponding users to Player. Once created, users can be used within teams and views. An example configuration for a user is below.

```
resource "crucible_player_user" "test" {
    user_id = identity_account.test.global_id
    # Make sure the user does not have the email domain in their username
    name = regex("(.*)(@.*)", identity_account.test.username)[0]
    role = "TestRole"
}
```

User properties

- user_id: The GUID to create this user with. Will probably point to an Identity account's GUID. Required.
- name: The name to assign this user. Required.
- role: A role to give this user. Optional.
- is_system_admin: Whether this user is a system admin. Computer.

## VLANs

The provider can interact with Crucible's Caster API in order to manage VLAN resources. VLANs can be acquired and released using this provider. The vlan_id of the returned VLAN is simply a number that will be marked as in use at the Caster API, allowing it to be used in a terraform configuration as the id of a VLAN in whatever infrastructure is being created without fear of collissions. Caster groups each set of 4096 VLANs into Pools, which can be further sub-divided into Partitions.

The available properties are as follows:

- project_id: The Id of a Project in Caster. If this Project exists and has been assigned a VLAN Partition, the requested VLAN will come from this Partition

- partition_id: The Id of a Partition in Caster. If this Partition exists, the requested VLAN will come from this Partition. Only one of project_id or partition_id can be set on a vlan resource. If neither are set, the requested VLAN will come from the system-wide default Partition in Caster, if one has been set.

- tag: If set, will return a VLAN with the specified tag, only if one with the requested tag exists and is not in use in the requested VLAN partition. Otherwise, an error will occur.

- vlan_id: If set, will return a VLAN with the specified vlan_id, only if it is not in use in the requested Partition. Otherwise, an error will occur.

Some example configurations:

```hcl
# use the default partition
resource "crucible_vlan" "default" {}

# use the partition assigned to the project
resource "crucible_vlan" "project" {
	project_id = var.project_id
}

# use a specific partition
resource "crucible_vlan" "partition" {
	partition_id = var.partition_id
}

# use a specific vlan_id in a specific partition
resource "crucible_vlan" "id" {
	partition_id = var.partition_id
	vlan_id = 10
}

# use a vlan with a specific tag in a project's partition
resource "crucible_vlan" "tag" {
	project_id = var.project_id
	tag = "red"
}
```

## Reporting bugs and requesting features

Think you found a bug? Please report all Crucible bugs - including bugs for the individual Crucible apps - in the [cmu-sei/crucible issue tracker](https://github.com/cmu-sei/crucible/issues).

Include as much detail as possible including steps to reproduce, specific app involved, and any error messages you may have received.

Have a good idea for a new feature? Submit all new feature requests through the [cmu-sei/crucible issue tracker](https://github.com/cmu-sei/crucible/issues).

Include the reasons why you're requesting the new feature and how it might benefit other Crucible users.

## License

Copyright 2022 Carnegie Mellon University. See the [LICENSE.md](./LICENSE.md) files for details.
